And thank you Anna, thank you Barry Wade
and all the team from gray area. I'm
very happy to be here. Um back from uh
from actually my EAL days which I will
begin with. Um so this was my diploma
project in 2017 and I came for the first
time in gray area in San Francisco in
2016. Um so it's I mean first time I met
this place. Um so I begin my research on
um breasts and sensors um activated by
the bio bioctions with this project that
was um my diploma project and it was a
machine that everyone could um come and
um experiment the extension of their
breast through um few different step
that was kind of a chain reaction
machine and I exhibited it in in Sa polo
at file festival and this is the moment
I realized that doing a project in a
school and exhibiting it with an
interactive purposes was very different.
So I told myself never again interactive
uh stuff. Um but and just a few few
months after I created an installation
around this machine that was um located
next to Paris in a former paper mill and
this machine is actually like a turbo
alternator and it was so it's it's not
used for like 50 years and the idea I
had was to try to wake up her through um
different medical installations
and it's a very weird stuff to to say
because every time I tell this story um
the the essence of it kind of gets lost
but whatever. Um so
the moment I tried to wake her up I
realized that it was the opposite thing
that happened. She kind of gave the
installation all the energy to function
and to move conceptually in her in some
of the part of the machine. I installed
the screens that were showing kind of
fantasiz organs and this is how she
began like the machine began um being
the central character in my work and I
got asked few few months after to
exhibit her in Geneva and I mean it's
not mine and it's 10,000 tons probably.
So
I still had this very focused breast um
research in mind and I thought why not
create a performance that could embody
the relationship with this machine
without having to move the machine
itself. So I created um a sculpture with
the the spirometer in it. So the the
breast sensor that you can actually see
uh because it's the first iteration of
the sculpture of course. um in the in
the sculpture. And I was particularly
interested into shell shapes because
naturally the shell shapes are shells
are used in uh navigation as instruments
for um conveying sound and to to to tell
other people um uh where you are like
yeah musical instrument and navigation
instruments as well as uh it's funny how
when you try to develop um I worked for
a few moments with cements and they were
trying to develop a part of uh printers
and by doing some algorithms through to
to create the best parts
in which the fluids could navigate they
realized that uh the algorithm would
create shell shapes elements. So you had
this relationship between fluids,
breathing and shells that are very uh
and voice also of course with
so each time I was performing I created
uh um videos that I called the breathing
patterns to encapsulate my breath uh and
to show a performative element that
didn't need myself to be activated. Um
and the
the breathing patterns are just very I
consider them more um more as animated
paintings than videos inel in
themselves. Um so here you can tell the
two very different moment of
performance. On the on the left side,
you have the a very irregular breathing
that shows the the beginning of the
performance where I you know I I need to
to embody and to and to enter the
performance and at some point even
though the breathing becomes becomes
very very intense it gets like a fluid
and natural. So it's embodied in the
second in the second video through parts
of data I record in the performance. Um
this said so I created um this this um
navigation between my works um is
something I just continuously
repeat through the the name fragile
ecosystem. So fragile system is this
universe where I meet I met this machine
then I activate her through the
performance and then through the
performance and the record of the data I
create other works such as videos um
sculptures and paintings um well in um
in 2021 I created a movie called our
symbis infected her fatal systems that
was trying to show this relationship
with the machine and how um
I got uh into this uh um metamorphosis
state with her continuously and the m
the the video was show is actually shown
in in the in the exhibition here so I
didn't want to show too much but it's
about three steps uh of also a kind of
um morphogenetic uh assimilation but
also something very close to birth let's
say. So there's like yeah an artificial
incimination with some breasts then some
egg systems and at the end some milk and
all those elements became also materials
I used in my work in in the same way as
a closed circuit with the with the
breathing and the data. So those those
sculptures those bodily sculptures
became um
actually wall sculptures that I made out
of milk. Galit is a it's a long story
but Galik is a milk plastic I recreated
without formal. Um,
and in the in the movie you can also see
like those wings I created in plexiglass
that became also paintings if you um so
I had like I also put a few examples of
performances and I got invited in very
very different um venues could be like
sometimes theater museums and for some
reason Switz people really love to make
me perform outside
and uh and I I I was very happy when I
got this invitation for art basel. But I
visited the place in um in spring where
I was I looked around the rock. So you
can't tell but the rock is actually 8
mters high so it was very slippery and
so I was like okay I can do it. I can
make everything waterproof blah blah.
When I came back the day of the
performance, the rock was full of worms
and larvas and I was like, "Okay, I love
this idea of communicating with other
beings and so on, but this goes a bit
too far." Um, but I had to perform it.
It was actually really, really nice.
Also, because the costume I made for
this particular performance, you can't
really tell, but was um the same kind of
gelatin element that was warmish. So I
kind of you know this was fate but it
was still a intense moment. Um
and of course um
of course the this idea of um
metamorphosis kind of also appeared in
my work through paintings and I wanted
to show it's a very bad picture but this
installation at the grand pale where you
al you had those um those painting of
bodies and women where you had to like
uh navigate through with your phone and
when you arrived on breast area which is
like this kind of flower metamorphosis.
You had some um uh 3D elements that were
moving also through my breasts from
other performances. So again this idea
of taking um also merging different
beings materials but also different
timelines when um I try to
make the performative aspect appear
afterwards but it still embodies my
breath through the data.
Um, another performance with the wings
from the from the the movie that became
another breathing pattern duo.
Another performance. This one's in the
pool. Um, this performance was a bit
specific because I was surrounded by se
by um five screens and after the
performance it stays in the it stayed in
the in the museum for a month. So I just
let I created on site a visualization of
the those breathing patterns and they
could just stay in the in the space uh
with the performative
sculpture as well.
So yeah, a lot Swiss people again in
front of the lake and they I don't know
the photographer was so funny because I
have so many of those pictures with the
ducks and and they were like okay very
very cute in another space. So yeah,
obviously a lot of emphasis on the
performance aspect. Um and even in the
painting themselves I make you have
those elements that would cross the
boundaries of um their uh role in this
universe. So you have this abstract
shape that becomes the pedestrial for
this body uh in two different works. So
vam
uh again lot of
um different variation of the this the
this abstract works and on the left it
was the first time I was showing those
um whips because I think more and more
thinking about the my work I realized
that you had this aspect of the fusion
of different narratives and different
bodies but that also there were not
specific specifically always
harmoniously
uh merging, but you had also constrain
and and dominant
um powers that were um questions of
powers and dominance that were also um
there. So I created also those tools
that are you know linked to yeah
domination of animals but with those um
those um
what do you say the place where you
should put your hand and made into gal.
So, this milk plastic this also
it's a lot. I I think I put a bit of too
much slides, but I wanted to show you
the texture of the paintings I make also
because um it took me a long time to
actually this one.
It took me a long time to
to come with uh this texture that could
also bring the audience into the
paintings by being something very
reflective but something I wanted to
have uh the feeling of making by hand
almost a video. So I I came with this
technique of enamel cold enamel applied
between five and 20 layers on each uh
piece and by the by the reflection
created visitors when they pass by have
the almost the sensation of animation
that you can also feel in the videos. So
in terms of aesthetically you have again
those cross links between materiality
um and also the fact that suddenly
because they are generated by with my
breath and by the reflections the
visitors appear into the the the
ecosystem as well. Um yeah so this is
another view of exhibition with some
paintings sculptures and um the
so this exhibition was titled La Victor
Dukan which translates by Arukin's
victory. So in into all this um universe
and this fusion I was always very uh
inspired by the figure of Alukin who's
described like in comed by this very
funny character but there's a legend um
found in a book whatever um that says
that Arlo has this very econic um coat
and if he takes it off he has another
one under this another one under this
another one until his own skin is sued
and Therefore he appears into this
continuum of artificial creatures that
you know have been created from like
antiquity with Galatia then Arlukin
Pinocchio puppets in general and um
creat the creator of Dr. Frankenstein.
So and the the figure of Arlukin never
really appeared clearly in my work. I
never dared like to to push them she he
whatever um on the on the front of the
stage. But suddenly I wanted to call the
show La Viko finally naming uh naming
this relationship because
you know by by this by the syntheticity
of the character and the multiplicity of
the skin. It's actually a very very
straightforward reference in my work to
the layers but as well as the the layers
in the paintings but as well as the as
the different embodiment of the material
and how they would communicate together.
and this idea of never ending
maternality or creation that's triggered
by the milk, the eggs and all this
breast material I have. So
um
here you have still visions of those uh
of those elements. And my most recent
work and also the reason why I kind of
went quite fast on the other slides is
this installation that I was m I made
with um foundation Hermes who were
looking with for artists that uh to work
with the material they never used and in
this situation leather and they asked me
to create something out of leather and
um I instantly thought about creating
elements or instruments of performance
performance because um conveying this
idea of uh interaction with machines,
breast, humanity would also apply
another layer with the skin of animals
because they convey and they keep some
um memory from their past lives. Um and
I created those sets of performative
objects
together with costumes. So you have four
of them each of them which wear a
different leather and the their patterns
on the surface as well. So
again referencing a lot this the arkin
uh in the in the aesthetically but also
conceptually I think I got
I got very interested over the years
about the theatricality of all this and
I realized that I was probably
less inspired by machines than by this
um mechanism of representation we use
them four which is trying to create an
antagonism with humanity and therefore
define how humanity works or how the
body works by trying to find this the
most uh different element or synthetic
element we can find. So machines but
also you know you know all the the in
history all the
moments in history conveyed their own um
uh
What do you say anyway?
Always creating synthetic characters to
create to to create contrast with
humanity.
And um this theization of the of of of
the body also comes through the moment
of the performance with the costumes.
And I got very interested in what is the
role of a of a costume if it's never
worn and what is the role what is the
role of a sculpture especially that is
um a character in in the work if it's
never played. So this installation
at the end was supposed to be you know
elements of performance but I will never
activate them. They will forever stay in
this kind of in between state in between
larvae and in between animals
almost as relics from past times but
also very futuristic and in this yeah
sleeping state. So the and I think for
now it's like the the the the project
that shows probably the best idea of
those non-humans elements
that convey
another type of life that should be a
character in the performance but that
that will never will. and their um
electric wires are braided as also has
whips and um this is that idea of
restrain and and and power in place with
the costumes together. Um
here you have um and this particular
costume was is the is um has been made
in a type of leather that I used on the
reverse. And you can actually see the
spines and the and the movement of the
of the animal that the skin comes from
um by the dyed of the it's a it's a
technique of dying um with the chrome.
So I spec specifically wanted to make
those the skin appear. And lastly, a few
days ago, I was in Berlin for a
performance that was um showing it was
exactly the same type of performance
that I did last evening here. And I redo
another sculpture out of the Hermes ones
and um perform in with the audience and
with a polyonic sound system
created with arch studio. Um and I
really enjoyed the having the breathing
surround the spectators and having this
feeling of this extension of the breast.
That was the first time because I could
never have a a special license system
until
one week ago and yesterday. So,
voila.
very about uh